---
title: ICT Acceptable Use Policy
permalink: /ict-acceptable-use-policy/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<p><strong>9. Cyber wellness</strong></p><p>9.1 Students are to be familiar with and adhere to the ICT Acceptable Use Policy.</p><p>Acceptable Use of ICT</p><p><strong>9.2 Student use of</strong></p><p>i) school-owned computers /IT equipment;</p><p>ii) private-owned computers or devices e.g. tablet, mobile phones, etc in school and school-owned software, data, accounts ,wired/wireless network and online services</p><p>are for educational purposes only and must be consistent with the school’s vision, mission, values, curriculum and instructional goals.</p><p><strong>Prohibited Use of ICT</strong></p><p>9.3 Student access to computers, mobile devices, network and internet services in VS is a privilege and not a right. Examples of prohibited uses include, but are not limited to, the following:</p><p>i) Unauthorized use of computers/mobile devices - Accessing computers/mobile devices during curriculum hours without specific authorisation from the supervising teacher.</p><p>To help students regulate their use of mobile devices, students are reminded of the following:-</p><p>a) Use of mobile devices for online gaming is not allowed in the school premises;</p><p>b) Mobile devices are not allowed to be used and should not be placed on students’ tables during lessons and in between transition of lessons;</p><p>c) During the lesson, the teacher will ask students to take out their devices at the start of the activity. The students will be asked to switch off and put away these devices once the lesson activity is over;</p><p>d) Students who are caught misusing their mobile devices during lessons will have their device confiscated. Parents will be informed. Students will have to get their devices from their teachers before the end of the day.</p><p>ii) Unsupervised usage of computers in computer laboratories - The use of computers in the computer laboratories is purely for curricular purposes under the supervision of the Subject Teacher. Computers located in the Media Resource Library (MRL) are available for use during non-curricular hours.</p><p>iii) Accessing inappropriate materials - Accessing, submitting, posting, publishing, forwarding, downloading, scanning, or displaying materials that are defamatory, abusive, obscene, vulgar, sexually explicit, sexually suggestive, threatening, discriminatory, harassing and/or illegal.</p><p>iv) Illegal Activities - Using the school’s computers, networks, and Internet services for any illegal activity or that violates other policies, procedures and/or school rules;</p><p>v) Violating Copyrights - Copying or downloading copyrighted materials without the owner’s permission. Plagiarism - Representing as one’s own work any materials obtained on the Internet (such as term papers, articles, etc). When Internet sources are used in student work, the author, publisher and web site must be identified.</p><p>vi) Misuse of Passwords/Unauthorized Access - Sharing passwords, using other users’ passwords and/or accessing other users’ accounts.</p><p>vii) Malicious Use/Vandalism - Any malicious use, disruption, altering, or harm to the school’s computers, software, equipment, networks, and Internet services, including but not limited to hacking activities and creation/uploading of computer viruses.</p><p><strong>Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) For Personal Learning Device &amp; School ICT Resources</strong></p><p>9.4 Computing devices and access to the Internet have become a necessity for work, play and learning in the 21st century. As you navigate the digital space, you should do so in a safe and responsible manner. More information can be found in the “Student Kit on Cyber Wellness and Learning with a Personal Learning Device”.</p><p>In addition, you are reminded to observe the guidelines stated in this Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) on the use of personal learning devices (PLDs) and the school’s ICT resources. ICT resources include the following, but are not limited to, MOE/school-deployed ICT system accounts, the device management application (DMA) and school’s internet network.</p><p><strong>General</strong></p><p>1. You are responsible for your PLD. In the event of loss or theft of the device, you must make a police report and report the matter to the school.</p><p>2. In order to have a seamless learning experience, you should ensure that your PLD is fully charged before bringing it to school. Should you need to charge your PLD in school, you should only do so at the school library during recess and after-school hours.</p><p>3. All PLDs are installed with a device management application (DMA) to support a safe and conducive learning environment. You should not attempt to uninstall the DMA or de-enroll the PLD from the DMA. Non-compliance may lead to disciplinary action in accordance with the school’s discipline policy.</p><p>4. You should not attempt to access data, system and information that you are not authorised to.</p><p>5. You are reminded that the use of PLDs and school’s ICT resources should solely be for the purpose of learning.</p><p><strong>User Account</strong></p><p>6. You should interact with others in a respectful and responsible way. You should not post online remarks that are</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>racially and/or religiously insensitive,</p></li><li><p>vulgar and/or offensive, or</p></li><li><p>hurtful to others.</p></li></ul><p>7. You should not use any devices to</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>store, modify, create or share content (e.g. documents, presentations, pictures and videos) that is inappropriate (e.g. indecent, pornographic, defamatory, hurtful to self or others).</p></li><li><p>...make threats, cause harassment or embarrassment, impersonate or intimidate others.</p></li></ul><p>8. You should not use MOE/school-deployed ICT system accounts for any commercial activities (e.g. buying and selling of goods and services).</p><p><strong>Intellectual Property</strong></p><p>9. You are reminded to obtain explicit permission from the content owner before downloading, copying or sharing any copyrighted materials (e.g. pictures, videos, music).</p><p>10. You should not use, copy or share digital files in an unauthorised or illegal manner. Any student not adhering to the above will be dealt with in accordance to the Code of Conduct.</p>